README.md, before:

# Piper TTS Extension

A Text-to-Speech extension for Visual Studio Code using Piper, a fast, local neural text-to-speech engine.

## Features

- Convert selected text to speech with high-quality voices
- Support for multiple languages and voices
- Local processing (no internet connection required)
- Cross-platform support (Windows, macOS, Linux)

## Requirements

### Windows Users
- Install [SoX (Sound eXchange)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/sox/files/sox/) 
  - Download and install the latest version
  - Ensure `play.exe` is in your system PATH

### macOS Users
No additional requirements.

### Linux Users
No additional requirements (uses `aplay` which is typically pre-installed).

The extension will automatically set the necessary execute permissions for the Piper binaries. If you still encounter permission issues, you may need to manually set execute permissions:

```bash
# Navigate to your extension directory (replace with your actual path)
cd ~/.vscode/extensions/sethmiller.piper-tts-*

# Set execute permissions for Linux binaries
chmod +x piper/linux_x86_64/piper
chmod +x piper/linux_x86_64/espeak-ng
chmod +x piper/linux_x86_64/piper_phonemize
```

## Usage

1. Select the text you want to read aloud
2. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Shift+P` (macOS)
3. Type "Read Aloud" and select the command
4. The selected text will be read aloud using the default voice

## Extension Settings

Currently, this extension does not have any configurable settings.

## Known Issues

- Windows users must install SoX for audio playback to work
- Linux users might encounter permission issues with the Piper binaries. The extension attempts to set the correct permissions automatically, but if issues persist, see the Linux Users section for manual steps

## Release Notes

### 1.0.0

Initial release:
- Basic text-to-speech functionality
- Support for Windows, macOS, and Linux
- Default English voice included

Commit message:

update for execute permissions on macOS

README.md, after:

# Piper TTS Extension

A Text-to-Speech extension for Visual Studio Code using Piper, a fast, local neural text-to-speech engine.

## Features

- Convert selected text to speech with high-quality voices
- Support for multiple languages and voices
- Local processing (no internet connection required)
- Cross-platform support (Windows, macOS, Linux)

## Requirements

### Windows Users
- Install [SoX (Sound eXchange)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/sox/files/sox/) 
  - Download and install the latest version
  - Ensure `play.exe` is in your system PATH

### macOS Users
No additional requirements.

The extension will automatically set the necessary execute permissions for the Piper binaries. If you still encounter permission issues, you may need to manually set execute permissions:

```bash
# Navigate to your extension directory (replace with your actual path)
cd ~/.vscode/extensions/sethmiller.piper-tts-*

# Set execute permissions for macOS binaries (adjust path based on your architecture)
chmod +x piper/macos_x64/piper
# or for Apple Silicon Macs:
chmod +x piper/macos_aarch64/piper
```

### Linux Users
No additional requirements (uses `aplay` which is typically pre-installed).

The extension will automatically set the necessary execute permissions for the Piper binaries. If you still encounter permission issues, you may need to manually set execute permissions:

```bash
# Navigate to your extension directory (replace with your actual path)
cd ~/.vscode/extensions/sethmiller.piper-tts-*

# Set execute permissions for Linux binaries
chmod +x piper/linux_x86_64/piper
chmod +x piper/linux_x86_64/espeak-ng
chmod +x piper/linux_x86_64/piper_phonemize
```

## Usage

1. Select the text you want to read aloud
2. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Shift+P` (macOS)
3. Type "Read Aloud" and select the command
4. The selected text will be read aloud using the default voice

## Extension Settings

Currently, this extension does not have any configurable settings.

## Known Issues

- Windows users must install SoX for audio playback to work
- Linux and macOS users might encounter permission issues with the Piper binaries. The extension attempts to set the correct permissions automatically, but if issues persist, see the respective platform sections for manual steps

## Release Notes

### 1.0.0

Initial release:
- Basic text-to-speech functionality
- Support for Windows, macOS, and Linux
- Default English voice included
